this video was made possible by skill
share learn what you want to learn for
free for two months by being one of the
first 500 sign up at the link in the
description American Civil War bad
captain america civil war good war
starting bad star wars good war of the
worlds' bad world war good wait no no
war good for most one of the few down
sights for a lack of war is that there's
not much for generals and they like to
do so they need activities to fill their
time one such activity is planning for
war after all the US for example has
only been at war for 224 years of its
243 year existence
a measly 92 percent that's a lot of
downtime during the 20s there wasn't
much war stuff going on only this small
four decade-long war in central america
where the US was fighting to be sure the
bananas kept flowing and so in order to
prepare for a possible Great War part
death the u.s. started preparing plans
for what their strategy would be for
hypothetical Wars with possible
contenders like Japan China Mexico and
the UK now despite their very public
breakup in the late 1700s relations
between the US and UK mostly improved up
until World War one when relations
improved greatly after US did Europe a
solid by rocking up in the fourth
quarter and helping finish the job
nonetheless Britain was still a big
scary empire by some measures still the
most powerful nation in the world so the
u.s. still prepared a plan in the 30s
for war with the Redcoats it was called
war plan red and the idea was as follows
of course after the u.s. quite
boisterously declared itself as not part
of the UK in the 1700s one of the
not-quite United States of America that
is Canada remained a part of the British
Empire by the 1900s Canada was
independent but still very much
integrated in the Commonwealth Anna had
some fancy features like a 5,500 mile
nine thousand kilometer border with the
home team in this hypothetical UK US war
it was therefore believed that the UK
would use Canada as a jumping-off point
a foreign invasion of the mainland US so
the idea was for the US military to
yankee-doodle do its way up to Canada
before the British could arrive there
were five main areas that the US would
invade Halifax in Saint John Montreal
and Quebec City the Great Lakes area
Winnipeg and Vancouver step one was to
launch an offensive towards Halifax by
land and sea Halifax was a crucial port
for British King
in trade and therefore occupy nyet would
greatly slow down the movement of
British forces into Canada from there a
land assault from New York and Vermont
would be launched to occupy Montreal and
Quebec City these act as a major ports
on the st. Lawrence and controlling the
st. Lawrence would essentially split
Canada in two preventing goods from the
agricultural areas in the Maritimes from
getting to the rest the u.s. would also
seek to control the Great Lakes area
around Toronto both because this area
was and is one of Canada's major
population and industrial centers and
because it's dangerously close to the
American Midwest which at the time was a
crucial industrial area of the u.s. they
didn't want the British to be able to
set up bases here Winnipeg was next on
the USS wish list largely because it
acted as the center of Canada's
transcontinental railroad so controlling
Winnipeg would mean controlling and
cutting off rail transportation
lastly Vancouver while lower importance
was included in invasion plans to
prevent Britain from using it as a
backup port by going through the Panama
Canal and in order to disrupt Canada's
Pacific trade it was believed that if
the u.s. controlled these five areas
they would effectively control Canada
and this would be a significant enough
blow that the UK would seek a peace deal
no conflict outside the western
hemisphere was planned interestingly
this plan included a short little casual
little line mentioning that the US had
no intention of returning the cash for
territory Canada would become part of
the u.s. who knows maybe they have oil
or something that sure would be
convenient please give us all that being
their worst nightmare
Canada developed their own war plan
against the United States they
recognized that their own military alone
did not have a great chance at defending
their territory against the US long term
the general idea was therefore to
distract US forces by as soon as
credible evidence about an impending US
invasion was received launching a
surprise invasion on Seattle Spokane
Portland Fargo Great Falls Minneapolis
Albany and Maine eventually as American
forces arrived to defend these cities
the Canadians would retreat destroying
infrastructure like bridges roads and
railroads on their way back to slow an
American invasion hopefully according to
the Canadian plan by this time British
troops would have arrived from the UK
now while they were far from the most
credible threat to the US some people
really believed in the 30s that war with
the British Empire could happen today
any sort of conflict between the u.s.
and the UK or Canada two of the most
culturally and economically linked
countries to the u.s. seems ridiculous
although we're playing red
his plan was only Declassified in 1974
the US won't acknowledge whether or not
there's a modern-day equivalent as far
as we know the American military could
be prepping for war with UK right now of
course what we can be pretty certain of
is that if the US and UK go to war the
missiles will be flying in the post-war
apocalyptic nuclear wasteland you'll
want to rebuild your social status
through humble brags like oh well you
know I've been so busy with my candle
business recently it's just doing so
well but I've finally gotten around to
watching that Skillshare course I had
downloaded on my iPad on how to make
roast chicken and you know what I think
the recipe would work for cockroach you
can do that because Gil shares iOS and
Android apps let you download any of
their more than 25,000 classes for
viewing offline with Skillshare you can
learn pretty much whatever you want to
learn whether that be knife skills
Pilates and memory skills animation or
more to get started visit the link in
the description or skl da sh / hii 19
also the first 500 visitors get two
months of unlimited access to over
25,000 classes for free